hey it's me Destin welcome to smarter
every day today nope
welcome to the slingshot channel hey
I've been taken over by Germans we're
going to look at slingshots today the
physics of slingshots so why do they
call your channel the slingshot channel
I don't understand you know I don't
understand either I you know I you would
think that we call it a nice guy's
channel or something like that oh they
call it the slingshot channel how do you
make sense we were going to talk about
the energy use and bands do you want to
say anything about it yes well this is
of course the lightest slingshot that
I've ever built not exactly it's
actually the most powerful one the
energy of a rifle shot and it has the
momentum of a sledgehammer alright so
we'll do the math and see if your Giz
right so let's look at the physics of
slingshots kinetic energy is one-half
mass times velocity square for a 22 it's
about 153 joules but for a Springfield
3006 it's 3841 joules a calculated
momentum of a sledgehammer by smashing
bricks in the backyard and analyzing the
high-speed they worked out to about 46
Newton seconds there is an angle between
the band and the point of anchoring this
angle I'm not going to get my hand in
there because I don't want to die but
this angle if you take the cosine of
that angle that is the amount of force
going into accelerating the projectile
so the closer the bands the more
efficient the slingshot is that correct
York yes exactly
yeah this is as awesome as it looks so
because it's rather cold now and also we
kept the bands in drawn-out condition
for quite a while the shot went lower
little bit because the rubber was a
little tired already and in cold weather
Robert doesn't work as well as in hot
temperature ah makes sense it was almost
a complete momentum transfer between
that ball in the would the the mass
times the velocity of the ball went all
into the wood so the mass times the
velocity of the wood after the shot
would be equal to the ball those may be
the yes so I'm Destin and you are
getting smarter every day and if you
want to go check out your channel the
slingshot channel yeah yes make sure so
I'll put a link for you to click so go
look at his channel and if you liked it
subscribe that's it
bye this is the only shot that I've ever
built it makes grown man giggle like
this small okay slingshots are all about
turning potential energy into kinetic
energy so the first thing we have to do
is we have to build up the potential
energy so York is doing that now
with his tissie device uh that
translates right sune be done here so
it's a start running so this is a very
very large steel ball class here between
the dowels and we're going to try to
destroy this pumpkin the pumpkin really
has no chance just question if we can
hit